### why databases ?
- In the previous  we are storing in arrays !! 
	- not good , as app can crash and remove the data.
- Storing in files has the  problem that they are not very optimized for storing data and hard to replicate files across technologies.
- Specific data already exist to optimize this ---> Databases !!!!
- Databases provide very nice APIs to read and write data and make changes.
- We can store the database we can store in local or cloud version.
	- MongoDB provides a sample database for free and is also source code available.

### Setting up MongoDB on Cloud:
- Select a Cluster on a given cloud provider, since was familiar with AWS took AWS.
- Give a name to the cluster and type as M0 which is for exploratory stuff.
- Added a default list of IPs to add the database and a username to allow access.
- MongoDB Compass is like a local SQL Explorer like Tool that helps to connect to the database and make queries and stuff.
- Authenticated and accessed using the URL Connection String that contians the information about user,password and the cluster name.

### NoSQL Databases Theory basics:
- Databases like NoSQL gives us 2 things:
	- Collections. / Tables(in SQL)
	- Each table has at least 1 collection in MongoDB.
- The collections that come here will also have some data, that we will dump the data here in a **schemaless** fashion.
	- pretty much put any object here.
- A document has been inserted in the collection, single entry inserted,(a autogenerated ID is pregenerated) -> to identify the object.
- In NOSQL, they allow us to insert different shapes / objects of data in the collections.
- Each and every object will look the same.
- Browser Client/ Mobile  -> make request to http server 
- http server --> stores data in database / file system(not optimal)
- also the data is also replicated(AWS stuff.)
- TODO FROM: https://harkirat.classx.co.in/video/123?courseId=2&ytFlag=0&isFolderCourse=1 ; 15:03